---
title: Sept 2020
date: 2020-09-01
---

## Sept 21, 2020

### Progress in [[Vancouver CLT]]

Jacob invited me to the [[Embassy Network]] Slack, which we're going to use as our community gathering space for collaborators for now.

There was a relevant post on a [proforma for a house in Maine](http://bit.ly/mainesecondlifeproforma) that can form part of the financial aspects of a CLT.

I shared [[CLT Vancouver]], I need to see about going in and introducing myself, and finding out more about them.

This article on [Co-buying property with friends](https://supernuclear.substack.com/p/co-buying-property-with-friends) was a good overview. Some parts are overly US-centric (Canada doesn't have LLCs and some of the other structures mentioned), but the general process is great.

### Further blog surgery

I went and grabbed the source for `blog.bmannconsulting.com` and put all the posts in the archive here as well. A number of them were bookmarks / links, which fit much better as notes. Many of the posts which I didn't bring in here are "social posts". Some of them could be good note candidates, but most of them are images and cross posts to Twitter and so on, which I'll see about importing into Micro.blog. It's going through a 2.0 update so I'll wait a while on that.

[[TODO]] I think I'm going to turn off the existing blog, point the `blog` subdomain at [[Micro.blog]] instead of `microblog`, and then I'm done shuffling things.

## Sept 8th, 2020

### Zoom intro with Jacob

Had a great intro call with [[Jacob Sayles]]. He shared a [10 bedroom house on Nicola Street](https://www.zillow.com/homedetails/971-Nicola-St-Vancouver-BC-V6G-2C7/2078240826_zpid/) that he's been looking at, and in general is excited about exploring shared housing options in for [[Vancouver CLT]].

Next step is to put out a call / invite people who might be interested in actually getting started with this.

### Speaker at UBC STRIVE

Spoke to the [STRIVE Business and Engineering Club](https://www.linkedin.com/company/strive-business-and-engineering/) tonight.

They are purposefully a small group where members take an active role in deciding what to learn and who to hear from.

It was a general "tell your entrepreneurship story" session over Zoom. Encouraged them to try things, start side businesses and projects.

I was surprised that none of them had heard of [[Y Combinator]].

I told them all to [get on Twitter](https://twitter.com/bmann/status/1303508335581253632). And I think somewhere in there I may have agreed to create a TikTok account.

None of them had ever bought a domain name -- suggested that they have someone in the group research on how to do that and present it to everyone else. With ~30 group members, that's a lot of combined research and learning!

Recommended [[Tumblr]] https://tumblr.com as well for sharing / clipping links and notes. You can still map your own domain name for free.

A few things I mentioned:
* [[Lean Startup]] and the "Build Measure Learn" loop and in general some of the topics from the [[Startup]] page
* [[Pirate Metrics]]
* Debating which presentation to send them, maybe [[Presentation - What Investors Want]] and/or [[Presentation - How to Build a Business]]