---
title: Dec 29, 2020
date: 2020-12-29
category: Journal
---

## Christmas Flu

I've been sick with a horrendous flu since Christmas Day. TLDR, it was "just" a bad flu.

I called the BC public health line at 811 on the 3rd evening of being sick, the nurse recommended that I get a COVID test. The next morning (yesterday) I went to the drive through at VCC and got tested with the saline mouth gargle. They didn't test Rachael because she didn't have symptoms. This was shortly after 9am.

By 9:30pm, I got an SMS notice that my test was negative. What a relief.

I did a log of my interactions, working backwards:

* Fri, Dec 25th: went for a walk and realized feeling very weak. Made it home and then badly sick from the afternoon onwards.
* Thurs, Dec 24th: cooking all morning, parental hand off of food
* Wed, Dec 23rd: comic book and cookie hand off with Su, Evo to Granville Island to Propeller Design. Standing in line outside Rio Friendly Meats for 1hr+
* Tues, Dec 22nd: office breakfast and then lunch, with Brooke, Katie, and Rachael
* Mon, Dec 21st: Lyft to Revolver, see Roland, go for walk in rain with Riad, tea & whiskey at Miku to warm up, Tom Lee Music to pickup [[Arturia KeyStep]], cab to office, Evo home
* Sun, Dec 20th: bike to do masked pick up at Cadeaux Bakery, drop off at the office 
* Sat, Dec 19th: 
* Fri, Dec 18th: home office, biked to do a masked cookie pickup and wheat beer handover
* Thurs, Dec 17th: home office, Fission Demo Day
* Wed, Dec 16th: Fission office with Brooke

Brooke and our shared office space is part of my bubble. On the 21st, obviously I had lots of interactions with different people, but all were wearing masks and/or 6ft away.

Of note: I got really chilled and wet out in the rain on the 21st. Then, on the 23rd, I again got really cold waiting in line outside Rio. And, in general, coming off a bunch of work and "relaxing", so I guess my system hit the wall and collapsed.

## Digital Notes Garden

So Christmas is traditionally "tinkering with my blog" time. I've got things running OK on [[Micro.blog]] for https://blog.bmannconsulting.com. The embed on the home page here works fine.

I'm doing updating of notes here only when I've got free time on a weekend or an evening at a full computer desktop. It takes 2.5 minutes to generate the site, which really sucks.

The other deficiency is that I can't really provide a feed of updated notes. I could go and add dates to all the notes and then have a modified date as well, but really that doesn't make a lot of sense.

And this Journal is looking an awful lot like a blog, which I decided I didn't want a feed for, because it really is just me writing for myself.

I'm still on again / off again with [[Roam Research]]. I use it for my private notes and simple TODOs and it's been fine. 

Anyway, this is all working for now, and I've been enjoying actually blogging, with things like [Bandcamp Fridays](https://blog.bmannconsulting.com/categories/music).

via [@agentofuser](https://frictionless.fission.app/Neuron.html), [[Neuron]] is a [[Haskell]] based [[Zettelkasten]] / [[Second Brain]] implementation.

## Open Subscription Platforms

via [@rosano](https://twitter.com/rosano/status/1343891364623380480), the people behind [[Ghost]] are putting together [OPen Subscription Platforms](https://opensubscriptionplatforms.com/):

> A shared movement for independent subscription data.
> With everyone getting into subscriptions, it’s never been more important to be in control of your customer data.

And in the footer:

> An open standards working group committed to data portability for independent subscription platforms

This is mainly about data exports, not [[platform risk]] -- so no discussion about open source here. I thought [[Ghost]] and [[Substack]] were pretty rivalrous, but Substack is listed right there as well.

[[Medium]], [[Patreon]], and [[ConvertKit]] get specifically called out as closed platforms.

