---
title: Jan 10, 2021
date: 2021-01-10
category: Journal
---

## Marfa Theme Edits

Doing some work on the [[Marfa Theme]] for my [[Micro.blog]] site. Running [[Hugo]] locally is really fast! I still have about 200 orphaned posts that I'd like to import into Mb at some point, which I use for testing, and with Hugo it's pretty instantaneous.

I'm stuck in the dark with Hugo a little bit, as I can't prototype locally because how to structure this for Mb isn't really documented. I guess I'll file another issue in the help documentation, as the only public place you can kind of file this stuff. I really wish Manton would just open source the whole thing or more properly make it non-commercial / source available.

## Micro and Macro Blogging

I've been blogging a lot lately. Daily posts about doing a walk outside. Basically "Instagram-style" photo posts with a few words.

Having Mb with [[Gluon]] on my phone and it "just works" is nice. I can write something short, or just keep typing and it ends up as a blog post, all written and posted direct from my phone, like [this post](https://blog.bmannconsulting.com/2021/01/09/the-code-you.html) about @kemitchell's [[StrictEq]] project. Yes, it's being renamed, head over to the [[Artless Devices Forum]] for longer discussion.

Longer posts like [this music one](https://blog.bmannconsulting.com/2021/01/10/campbells-dec-playlist.html) were done sitting at my desktop, composed and posted with [[Mars Edit]]. This is good for short posts, too, like [documenting some tide / calendar research I did for my mom](https://blog.bmannconsulting.com/2021/01/06/tide-data-as.html). A side effect of spending lots of time WFH -- having default desktop app tools.

## Crossposting

I've turned on cross-posting to Mastodon and Twitter automatically. People seem to enjoy my more "social" posts on Twitter, which is great. And I definitely reach different people on Mastodon, in a nice way.

Using the StrictEq post as an example again, yeah, I hate the "title":

> “The code you depend on depends on you” @kemitchell’s commercial license sales for public software

But I have to craft it knowing that it will get cross-posted to Twitter and to Mastodon. I guess that's another wishlist item for [[Micro.blog]]: for non-micro-blog posts that have a title, allow for a "cross posting excerpt".

Otherwise, your only other option is to:

1) turn off cross-posting for the initial publish of the blog post and then
2) make a micro blog length post that links to your blog post. 

Hmm. Now that I think about it, that's actually not _bad_, but I've found toggling cross posting to be really confusing. I need to experiment with the Mb mobile app and run some experiments to see if I can figure it out, the UI is just not good for this. 

## Federated Social Networks

With Trump being kicked off Twitter, the discussion about Parler being kicked off [[AWS]], there's lots of discusison about federated and censorship proof social networks.[[I <a href='https://twitter.com/QuinnyPig/status/1348116976019771392'>RTd @QuinnyPig</a> who has a good thread on AWS terms of service, and other cloud providers more broadly. Aimed at explaining even to non-technical people, a good one to share.::lmn]]

I got drawn into a long thread [kicked off by Stefan George](https://twitter.com/StefanDGeorge/status/1347861734716035074) of [[Gnosis]], who wanted to post a bounty to save/store Twitter stuff to IPFS. I [pointed out that Twitter archives already exist](https://twitter.com/bmann/status/1347937473494618112?s=20). 

From there I got into a whole back and forth, including people suggesting that Twitter data should be mass exfiltrated to setup an alt social network. Maybe at one point I would have reached for a purely technical solution like this, but here's my final take:

> Technical tricks to try extract Twitter data is probably orders of magnitude harder than …just doing the work in building out critical mass communities. 
> 
> The difference between the two approaches? One is technical challenges, the other is marketing and community building.
> [@bmann](https://twitter.com/bmann/status/1348350579072921605)

I am... somewhat distraught that a lot of decentral type people think about this issue as censorship, rather than the "let's deplatform fascists issue" that it actually is. Twitter is in no way a public utility. Own your "distribution" -- whether it's direct mailing list subscriptions or your own community social network: run your own Discourse or Mastodon server. Twitter _is_ today's mass media: use it for distribution, but know that you're there at the company's sufferance.

And of course, when I see lots of crypto people happily using Medium and Substack, I'm not going to take the rest of their opinions seriously. Your words need to get backed up by actions, my dudes.

Jeff Henshaw [popped back up on Mastodon](https://social.coop/web/statuses/105532885799120767) -- and he's hosting his own Mastodon server. He was asking me why I'm on Mastodon, here's my answer:

> the concept of collective ownership / maintenance.
>
> Nothing wrong with “multi user” systems, but we have to clearly understand that it costs people time and some server resources to run things. 
>
> I’m working on a model of awareness that people should pay for apps — that behind that app are real people, not just corporations.
>
> “Exit to community” is a related theme. Plus governance, etc etc
> [@bmann@social.coop](https://social.coop/@bmann/105532951231308481)

Yes, I'm posting my own content back to my own site. Which means it becomes part of my forever content, and also I can link to and include it in search.

## Twitter Archive

I guess I should document my [[Twitter Archive]], which lives at <https://tweets.bmannconsulting.com/>. In a week or so, when [[Fission]] has [[Github Actions]] support, I can start publishing this to [[IPFS]] directly, instead of hosting it on Github Pages. Doing this direct from Google Sheets to Fission would be ideal, as a little one off Twitter Archive app.

It was really easy to setup. Michael Hawksey's @mhawksey post explains it all: [[Keeping your Twitter Archive fresh and freely hosted on Github Pages]].

I just emailed Michael to see if I can send him some thank you money, or donate to some project on his behalf.
