---
date: 2021-01-10T11:29:56.900-08:00
---

I've been blogging a lot lately. Daily posts about doing a walk outside. Basically "Instagram-style" photo posts with a few words.

Having Mb with [[Gluon]] on my phone and it "just works" is nice. I can write something short, or just keep typing and it ends up as a blog post, all written and posted direct from my phone, like [this post](https://blog.bmannconsulting.com/2021/01/09/the-code-you.html) about @kemitchell's [[StrictEq]] project. Yes, it's being renamed, head over to the [[Artless Devices Forum]] for longer discussion.

Longer posts like [this music one](https://blog.bmannconsulting.com/2021/01/10/campbells-dec-playlist.html) were done sitting at my desktop, composed and posted with [[Mars Edit]]. This is good for short posts, too, like [documenting some tide / calendar research I did for my mom](https://blog.bmannconsulting.com/2021/01/06/tide-data-as.html). A side effect of spending lots of time WFH -- having default desktop app tools.

I've turned on [[cross posting]] to [[Mastodon]] and [[Twitter]] automatically. People seem to enjoy my more "social" posts on Twitter, which is great. And I definitely reach different people on Mastodon, in a nice way.

Using the StrictEq post as an example again, yeah, I hate the "title":

> “The code you depend on depends on you” @kemitchell’s commercial license sales for public software

But I have to craft it knowing that it will get cross-posted to Twitter and to Mastodon. I guess that's another wishlist item for [[Micro.blog]]: for non-micro-blog posts that have a title, allow for a "cross posting excerpt".

Otherwise, your only other option is to:

1) turn off cross-posting for the initial publish of the blog post and then
2) make a micro blog length post that links to your blog post. 

Hmm. Now that I think about it, that's actually not _bad_, but I've found toggling cross posting to be really confusing. I need to experiment with the Mb mobile app and run some experiments to see if I can figure it out, the UI is just not good for this. 