--- 
layout: post
title: 200 Things
created: 1097218732
categories: 
- Personal
---

<p>I've seen this list lots of different places. Made me think way back to post #18, <a href="/node/18">50 Places to See Before You Die</a>.</p>
<!--break-->
<p><b>Bolded</b> is a &quot;yes&quot;.</p>

<p><b>1. Bought everyone in the pub a drink</b> (Germany, when I was 16, in one of the first pubs I was in)<br /><b>2. Swam with wild dolphins</b> (rescued a <a href="http://www.nmfs.noaa.gov/speciesid/fish_page/fish60a.html">Pacific Whitesides Dolphin</a> at Long Beach on Vancouver Island's west coast; so not really swimming, but we walked it past the surf line)<br /><b>3. Climbed a mountain</b> (what, with climbing gear? Or does hiking count?)<br />4. Taken a Ferrari for a test drive<br />5. Been inside the Great Pyramid<br />6. Held a tarantula<br />7. Taken a candlelit bath with someone<br /><b>8. Said &quot;I love you&quot; and meant it</b><br /><b>9. Hugged a tree</b><br />10. Done a striptease<br />11. Bungee jumped<br /><b>12. Visited Paris</b> (yep, the Europe trip at 16)<br /><b>13. Watched a lightning storm at sea</b> (lots)<br /><b>14. Stayed up all night long, and watched the sun rise</b><br /><b>15. Seen the Northern Lights</b> (we thought they were towns in Quebec at first)<br /><b>16. Gone to a huge sports game</b><br />17. Walked the stairs to the top of the leaning Tower of Pisa<br /><b>18. Grown and eaten your own vegetables</b><br />19. Touched an iceberg<br /><b>20. Slept under the stars</b><br /><b>21. Changed a baby's diaper</b><br />22. Taken a trip in a hot air balloon<br />23. Watched a meteor shower<br /><b>24. Gotten drunk on champagne</b><br />25. Given more than you can afford to charity<br /><b>26. Looked up at the night sky through a telescope</b><br /><b>27. Had an uncontrollable giggling fit at the worst possible moment</b> (I'm looking at you here, Rob Sample!)<br /><b>28. Had a food fight</b><br />29. Bet on a winning horse<br /><b>30. Taken a sick day when you're not ill</b><br />31. Asked out a stranger<br /><b>32. Had a snowball fight</b><br />33. Photocopied your bottom on the office photocopier<br /><b>34. Screamed as loudly as you possibly could</b><br /><b>35. Held a lamb</b><br /><b>36. Enacted a favorite fantasy</b><br /><b>37. Taken a midnight skinny dip</b><br /><b>38. Taken an ice cold bath</b><br />39. Had a meaningful conversation with a beggar<br />40. Seen a total eclipse<br /><b>41. Ridden a roller coaster</b><br />42. Hit a home run<br /><b>43. Fit three weeks miraculously into three days</b><br /><b>44. Danced like a fool and not cared who was looking</b><br />45. Adopted an accent for an entire day<br />46. Visited the birthplace of your ancestors<br /><b>47. Actually felt happy about your life, even for just a moment</b><br /><b>48. Had two hard drives for your computer</b> (I think my record is three, not including external drives)<br />49. Visited all 50 states<br />50. Loved your job for all accounts<br /><b>51. Taken care of someone who was shit faced</b><br />52. Had enough money to be truly satisfied<br /><b>53. Had amazing friends</b><br />54. Danced with a stranger in a foreign country<br /><b>55. Watched wild whales </b>(lots; most amazing was the killer whale and calf next to the Bowen ferry)<br /><b>56. Stolen a sign</b><br /><b>57. Backpacked in Europe</b><br /><b>58. Taken a road-trip</b><br />59. Rock climbed (OK, I'm changing that mountain one, I think hiking a mountain counts)<br />60. Lied to foreign government's official in that country to avoid notice<br /><b>61. Went for a midnight walk on the beach</b><br /><b>62. Gone sky diving</b> (first co-op trip to Ottawa)<br />63. Visited Ireland<br />64. Been heartbroken longer then you were actually in love<br />65. In a restaurant, sat at a stranger's table and had a meal with them<br /><b>66. Visited Japan</b><br /><b>67. Benchpressed your own weight</b> (back in high school, while on the rugby team)<br /><b>68. Milked a cow</b><br />69. Alphabetized your records<br />70. Pretended to be a superhero<br /><b>71. Sung karaoke</b><br /><b>72. Lounged around in bed all day</b><br />73. Posed nude in front of strangers<br /><b>74. Gone scuba diving</b><br />75. Got it on to &quot;Let's Get It On&quot; by Marvin Gaye<br /><b>76. Kissed in the rain.</b><br /><b>77. Played in the mud</b><br /><b>78. Played in the rain</b><br />79. Gone to a drive-in theater<br />80. Done something you should regret, but don't regret it<br />81. Visited the Great Wall of China<br />82. Discovered that someone who's not supposed to have known about your blog has discovered your blog<br />83. Dropped Windows in favor of something better<br /><b>84. Started a business</b><br /><b>85. Fallen in love and not had your heart broken</b><br />86. Toured ancient sites<br /><b>87. Taken a martial arts class</b> (I did a lot of Judo in high school)<br />88. Swordfought for the honor of a woman<br /><b>89. Played D&amp;D for more than 6 hours straight</b><br /><b>90. Gotten married</b> (yes!)<br />91. Been in a movie<br />92. Crashed a party<br /><b>93. Loved someone you shouldn't have</b><br /><b>94. Kissed someone so passionately it made them dizzy</b><br />95. Gotten divorced<br />96. Had sex at the office<br />97. Gone without food for 5 days<br /><b>98. Made cookies from scratch</b><br />99. Won first prize in a costume contest<br />100. Ridden a gondola in Venice<br />101. Gotten a tattoo<br />102. Found that the texture of some materials can turn you on<br />103. Rafted the Snake River<br />104. Been on television news programs as an &quot;expert&quot;<br />105. Got flowers for no reason<br />106. Masturbated in a public place<br /><b>107. Got so drunk you don't remember anything</b><br />108. Been addicted to some form of illegal drug<br />109. Performed on stage<br />110. Been to Las Vegas<br />111. Recorded music<br /><b>112. Eaten shark</b><br /><b>113. Had a one-night stand</b><br />114. Gone to Thailand<br />115. Seen Siouxsie live<br />116. Bought a house<br />117. Been in a combat zone<br />118. Buried one/both of your parents<br />119. Dyed your hair<br />120. Been on a cruise ship<br /><b>121. Spoken more than one language fluently</b><br />122. Gotten into a fight while attempting to defend someone<br /><b>123. Bounced a check</b><br />124. Performed in Rocky Horror<br />125. Read - and understood - your credit report<br />126. Raised children<br />127. Recently bought and played with a favorite childhood toy<br />128. Followed your favorite band/singer on tour<br />129. Created and named your own constellation of stars<br />130. Taken an exotic bicycle tour in a foreign country<br />131. Found out something significant that your ancestors did<br />132. Called or written your Congress person<br />133. Picked up and moved to another city to just start over<br />134. ...more than once?<br />135. Walked the Golden Gate Bridge<br /><b>136. Sang loudly in the car, and didn't stop when you knew someone was looking.</b><br />137. Had an abortion or your female partner did<br />138. Had plastic surgery<br />139. Survived an accident that you shouldn't have survived.<br />140. Wrote articles for a large publication<br />141. Lost over 100 pounds<br />142. Held someone while they were having a flashback<br />143. Piloted an airplane<br />144. Petted a stingray<br />145. Broken someone's heart<br /><b>146. Helped an animal give birth</b><br /><b>147. Been fired or laid off from a job</b><br />148. Won money on a T.V. game show<br />149. Broken a bone<br />150. Killed a human being<br />151. Gone on an African photo safari<br /><b>152. Ridden a motorcycle</b><br />153. Driven any land vehicle at a speed of greater than 100mph<br />154. Had a body part of yours below the neck pierced<br />155. Fired a rifle, shotgun, or pistol<br /><b>156. Eaten mushrooms that were gathered in the wild</b><br /><b>157. Ridden a horse</b><br />158. Had major surgery<br />159. Had sex on a moving train<br />160. Had a snake as a pet<br />161. Hiked to the bottom of the Grand Canyon<br />162. Slept through an entire flight: takeoff, flight, and landing<br /><b>163. Slept for more than 30 hours over the course of 48 hours</b><br /><b>164. Visited more foreign countries than U.S. states</b><br />165. Visited all 7 continents<br /><b>166. Taken a canoe trip that lasted more than 2 days</b><br />167. Eaten kangaroo meat<br />168. Fallen in love at an ancient Mayan burial ground<br />169. Been a sperm or egg donor<br /><b>170. Eaten sushi</b> <br />171. Had your picture in the newspaper<br />172. Had 2 (or more) healthy romantic relationships for over a year in your lifetime<br />173. Changed someone's mind about something you care deeply about<br />174. Gotten someone fired for their actions<br />175. Gone back to school<br />176. Parasailed<br />177. Changed your name<br />178. Petted a cockroach<br />179. Eaten fried green tomatoes<br /><b>180. Read The Iliad</b><br />181. Selected one -important- author who you missed in school, and read their work<br />182. Dined in a restaurant and stolen silverware, plates, cups because your apartment needed them<br />183. ...and gotten 86'ed from the restaurant because you did it so many times, they figured out it was you<br />184. Taught yourself an art from scratch<br /><b>185. Killed and prepared an animal for eating</b><br />186. Apologized to someone years after inflicting the hurt<br />187. Skipped all your school reunions<br /><b>188. Communicated with someone without sharing a common spoken language</b><br />189. Been elected to public office<br /><b>190. Written your own computer language</b> (heh. Well, not an <i>entire</i> language. It was in Scheme, and it was called D- or something like that)<br />191. Thought to yourself that you're living your dream<br />192. Had to put someone you love into hospice care<br /><b>193. Built your own PC from parts</b><br />194. Sold your own artwork to someone who didn't know you<br />195. Had a booth at a street fair<br />196: Dyed your hair<br />197: Been a DJ<br />198: Found out someone was going to dump you via LiveJournal<br /><b>199: Written your own role playing game</b><br />200: Been arrested</p>
