--- 
layout: post
title: "Interacting with Bloggers 101: Permalinks, Product Info, and Personality"
created: 1151720562
categories: 
- permalinks
- product info
- gnomedex
- Steve Rubel
- Personal Publishing
- Search Engine Voodoo
---
<p>I made some comments today during <a href="http://www.micropersuasion.com">Steve Rubel&#39;s</a> <a href="http://www.gnomedex.com">Gnomedex</a> session. Steve asked, what are PR and marketing professionals doing right and wrong? What do people who blog want/need from such departments?</p>  <p>After much <a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/uncleweed/178622661/">arm waving</a> I got Steve to notice me, and I answered with three P&#39;s.</p>  <ol><li><strong>Permalinks:</strong> folks, this is such a simple one. Don&#39;t make your press release page be &quot;press.php&quot; and old news be &quot;archive.php&quot;. Have a single, unique link for each press release, news story, product, or (*gasp*) blog post you make. This means not trying to make me figure out a crazy javascript or Flash navigation system, but simply having a clear, single link I can use to directly get to information. URL schemes like /news/2006/07/01/bigstory or /products/coolproduct/model-vw83 are some good examples. </li><li><strong>Product Info:</strong> I like product info. I like permalinks to direct product info. I like tech specs, and I like easily grab-able (and even better, friendly licensed) product photos. Heck, encourage me to hotlink images from your corporate server. Include copy/paste code that includes the permalink and a caption that I can drop into any system that groks HTML. For bonus points, make a little Flash/Javascript/rotating GIF widget that I can put into a post.</li><li><strong>Personality:</strong> yes, I want personality. This one is last, because a lot of corporates just can&#39;t get past legal, or want the community to bring in the personality. If you&#39;re not going to blog, perhaps upgrade your press release writer to someone with a little more human in their blood, or give me a contact that I can talk to/interview to get more of a human face to the information you&#39;re presenting.</li></ol>  <p>It seems so simple. But I know how difficult this can be. Many marketing and PR departments rely on a chain of consultants, contractors, or other folks to manage their web presence somewhere down the line. PR types need to become actively vocal about the needs they have. The three P&#39;s might be a good place to start.</p><p>[cross posted to my <a href="/blog/boris-mann/interacting-with-bloggers-101-permalinks-product-info-and-personality">Bryght</a> blog]&nbsp;</p>
