--- 
layout: post
title: Is the iPhone really locked to Cingular?
created: 1168448639
categories: 
- iPhone
- Cingular
- Mac
- Wireless, Cellular, and Mobile
---
<p>So, I&#39;ve had some time to reflect on the iPhone announcement yesterday and my <a href="/blog/bmann/iphone-is-a-tablet" title="iPhone is a tablet">gushing post</a> on it. June seems really far away, but of course, I had to laugh at <a href="http://blackrimglasses.com/archives/2007/01/09/microsoft-confirms-zune-will-play-games-by-july-2008-engadget/">Ethan Kaplan&#39;s comment on the news that Zune will play games in July 2008</a>. What will the iPhone do in comparison by that time?</p><p><a href="http://ralphm.net/blog/">RalphM</a> points out in my comments that the iPhone is essentially a closed platform: call Apple if you want to build something on top. Ouch. I can understand, as they have to own making the device a vertically integrated experience that fits the &quot;just works&quot; category, and Google and Yahoo are major players that they wouldn&#39;t want displaced by some brilliant third party hack. Except, of course, that there *might be* brilliant third party hacks. This will happen over time, and Widgets seem the easiest way in. Lower level access will take much longer, which is a shame...</p><p><a href="http://mezzoblue.com/archives/2007/01/09/imobile/">Dave Shea</a> talked about new interaction models with the touchscreen, with which I have to agree, and then goes on to talk about the big issues: Cingular contracts and lockage aka how can we get it in Canada before it&#39;s &quot;officially&quot; here. <a href="http://chuqui.typepad.com/chuqui_30/2007/01/my_thoughts_on_.html">Chuqui</a> has a good deep dive on this and how the FCC fits in, too. Graham Fair covers this in my comments as well. <br /></p><p>Apple could go two paths with this. What they&#39;ve announced, is that the iPhone will be available in June only with a contract from Cingular.&nbsp; In the US, most people (not even most consumers -- most people in general) don&#39;t understand the whole locked phone / SIM card thing. I heard a comment in passing that it may have been actually illegal to try and unlock your own phone, that you own, because of DMCA issues.</p><p>OK, so the Apple bundle. Does it just come pre-installed with a Cingular SIM card, and &quot;just works&quot;? That&#39;s what I expect. I expect that Apple in fact will not allow locking of the iPhone at all: they&#39;re using a business contract to control the Cingular relationship, but haven&#39;t actually built anything into the OS that facilitates locking. That&#39;s path number one.</p><p>Path number two is that Apple does have locking built in, and we&#39;ll have to find a way to circumvent it, which would suck.&nbsp;</p><p>Remember, this is pure speculation, but if the iPhone doesn&#39;t have locking capabilities, it means we could buy one, pay for a Cingular plan, then take out the SIM card and replace it with a Canadian/European/whatever one, and it would &quot;just work&quot;. Knock on wood.</p><p>Now, data. Dave Shea mentions &quot;Somehow there has to be reconciliation between a bandwidth-hungry device like the iPhone promises to be, and the bandwidth-stingy mobile plans that many of us are stuck with&quot;. This is the case in Canada. Again, a few people are lucky enough to have a grandfathered plan that has unlimited data. But in the US, there are unlimited data plans that are really quite reasonable. And there&#39;s always WiFi...</p><p>Expect a horde of Canadians to be visiting in June....&nbsp;</p>
<!--break-->
