--- 
layout: post
title: Can the CRTC help?
created: 1176216090
categories: 
- CRTC
- Canada
- Wireless, Cellular, and Mobile
---
<p>So, I think we&#39;ve got agreement on the <a href="/blog/bmann/the-travesty-of-canadian-mobile-data-rates">ridiculous costs of mobile data in Canada</a>. But is it the &quot;fault&quot; of the CRTC?</p><p>I did a follow up comment on <a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/thomaspurves/452679328/?#comment72157600061743796">Thomas Purves&#39; image post on Flickr</a>:</p><blockquote><p>I skipped over any mention of the CRTC: the focus here really is the short sightedness of the companies involved, that 100,000 customers at a lower cost is more money than 1,000 customers at a high cost (never mind the network effects of lots of people doing interesting things with mobile data, which intuitively would lead to even more revenue). I may do another post today that explores this a bit: can the CRTC help? I think government support / intervention is the only likely option, given the cost of infrastructure buildout here in Canada.<br /><br />What if the CRTC had blocked the sale of Fido to Rogers?<br /><br />Something to think about....(and maybe change the inflammatory title). </p></blockquote><p>Living in Canada, I&#39;m not against regulation in all its forms. I honestly don&#39;t know enough about the ins and outs of all the issues, or what twiddling the levers of intervention / regulation do to economies and businesses.</p><p>But it&#39;s likely that the right people to lobby are the mobile carriers themselves. The <a href="http://digg.com/tech_news/Canada_Worse_than_3rd_World_Countries_when_it_comes_to_Mobile_Data_Access/">comments on Digg</a> (surprisingly!) have some other useful points. <a href="http://martin.cleaver.org/blog/2007/04/09/the-stupidity-of-canadian-telcos-with-their-exhoribitant-data-rates/">Martin Cleaver</a> in particular points to what we can do (lobby your carrier!) and describes in more detail the issues that the CRTC faces. </p>
