--- 
layout: post
title: "Mossberg iPhone Review: no SIM card, CDMA only?"
created: 1182900319
categories: 
- CDMA
- GSM
- iPhone
- Mossberg
- review
- Rogers
- SIM
- Wall Street Journal
- Canada
- Mac
- Wireless, Cellular, and Mobile
---
<p>Mossberg has posted his <a href="http://online.wsj.com/article/SB118289311361649057.html?mod=hps_us_at_glance_columnists">review of the iPhone</a>, calling it a &quot;breakthrough handheld computer&quot;. What caught my eye was this statement:</p><blockquote><p>But the iPhone has a major drawback: the cellphone network it uses. It only works with AT&amp;T (formerly Cingular), won&#39;t come in models that use Verizon or Sprint and can&#39;t use the digital cards (called SIM cards) that would allow it to run on T-Mobile&#39;s network. So, the phone can be a poor choice unless you are in areas where AT&amp;T&#39;s coverage is good. It does work overseas, but only via an AT&amp;T roaming plan.</p></blockquote><p>Uh....what? Somehow, we had always assumed that this would be a GSM phone. The confusion about the AT&amp;T vs. Cingular brand heightens this. I was under the impression that AT&amp;T was moving to GSM...but Cingular&#39;s network was/is CDMA based. </p><p>If the iPhone is, indeed, a CDMA phone, then the whole <a href="/blog/bmann/is-the-iphone-really-locked-to-cingular">will the iPhone be locked to Cingular</a> question is a bit moot: without SIM cards, you can&#39;t take it to another network.</p><p>What does this mean for the timeline of a Canadian iPhone provider? Well, Rogers is a GSM network, not CDMA. So...Bell or Telus? Well, just a bit more time and some more of this should be revealed.</p><p><strong>Update:</strong> ok, I&#39;m pretty sure iPhone as CDMA phone is incorrect, here&#39;s another <a href="http://www.usatoday.com/tech/columnist/edwardbaig/2007-06-26-iphone-review_N.htm">review from USA Today</a>:</p><blockquote><p>In techie terms, iPhone is a &quot;quad-band GSM&quot; phone, meaning you can operate it overseas. (You&#39;ll have to tell AT&amp;T to turn on international roaming.)</p></blockquote><p>So. We know that iPhone *is* a GSM phone. But no SIM card. Our best guess now is that this is all done in software / firmware...hence the iTunes activation step. So, unless you know how to re-program the iPhone&#39;s firmware to make it emulate another carrier&#39;s SIM....the iPhone is locked to only the networks that Apple chooses to support. Which, however, they can update through iTunes.</p><p>Wow. Apple iTunes as gateway to buying cellphone services. I&#39;m still shaking my head at how they managed to put the carriers in a headlock...and still sad that they took away user choice by not just having a user-accessible SIM card.</p><p><strong>Update 2:</strong> OK, last update on this (and boy, this blog post now is completely wrong). The iPhone *does* have a SIM card slot, which we can see thanks to <a href="http://www.nytimes.com/ref/business/20070627_POGUE_GRAPHIC.html">David Pogue&#39;s graphic </a>about it. The comment says:</p><blockquote><p>If you insert a pin or an unfolded paperclip into the pinhole and push hard, the pre-installed SIM card tray pops out. Any recent AT&amp;T SIM card should work, although only after iPhone activitation in the iTunes software. </p></blockquote><p>Thanks to <a href="http://www.roguewolves.com/">Scott Langevin</a> for pointing this out in the comments.</p><p>So, final final conclusion -- the iPhone is a GSM phone (duh!), it *does* have a SIM card (yay!), and it is somehow locked and/or tied into iTunes activation. Next challenge: unlock the iPhone.... </p> <!--break-->
