---
title: April 21st, 2024
date: 2024-04-21, 10:24:06 -07:00
section: journal
excerpt: A log of some blog coding that I did, including more Frames support, canonical links, article and code filtered listing pages, and this excerpt field.
---
Going through some open tabs and made a bunch of updates. Now took myself to the coffee shop to work on some blog coding.

**Custom Frames Support**

I added [[Farcaster Frames]] support to the site, using just default settings similar to what is already inserted into page headers for [[OpenGraph]].

Using the [[Ghost]] page as an example, I'm modifying the [head template](https://github.com/bmann/bmcgarden/blob/archivetrim/_includes/head.html#L45) so that I can put in custom frame data per notes page.

```yaml
frame:
  image: /assets/2024/ghost_logo_black.jpg
  image-aspect-ratio: "1:1"
  button2:
    label: "Github"
    action: "link"
    target: https://github.com/TryGhost/Ghost
  button1:
    label: "Home"
    action: "link"
    target: "https://ghost.org"
```

[[Obsidian]] doesn't support these kind of nested header properties, so I need to do it in source code view.

Yes, there would be some way to create this in a way that loops through a button array.

**Canonical Link**

I take notes on articles. I keep a local copy of the article and capture when it was published, who the author was, and usually clip some quotes and make some comments of my own.

I want people to go read the original! And I don't want to "steal" search traffic or attention from the original. In fact, I want to boost it! Reading [Wikipedia on the canonical link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Canonical_link_element), this not really what it's meant for.

Regardless, adding some header meta data. This is the part of thinking for [[Community Search Engine]] that has to happen.

**Articles Page**

Turns out I had an unfinished [articles](/articles/) page! Fixed a couple of things with it, including getting year sorting done correctly. Design of it still needs a lot of work.

**Code Page**

Let's make a page with all the notes that have a code repository / git link! Here's [code](/code/).

Oh fun, of course I have some people entries, and if I have their Github profile filled out, they'll show up on this page.

There aren't that many entries on here because I have more in the old Logseq notes with [github](https://notes.bmannconsulting.com/#/page/github) and [git](https://notes.bmannconsulting.com/#/page/git) properties.

And separately, I'd like to capture my [1.4K starred repos on Github](https://github.com/bmann?tab=stars). The "signal" of me adding a notes page is stronger than "merely" starring on Github, but it should at least contribute to a personal search index (which again leads into [[Community Search Engine]] too).

**Excerpt for Journals** 

This is a very long journal post! My RSS automated cross posting with [[Fedica]] would attempt to turn this into a very very long set of threaded posts.

I'll add an excerpt field which will get used in the RSS feed if it excepts. 

```liquid
{% raw %}
{% if post.excerpt %}
  {% assign description = post.excerpt %}
{% else %}
  {% assign description = post.content %}
{% endif %}
{% endraw %}
```
