---
---

- I spoke to the design thinking class taught by [[Katie Davis]]  at [[Langara College]] on [[Mar 22nd, 2023]]
- The [DSNG 1300: Design Thinking Course](https://langara.ca/programs-and-courses/courses/DSGN/1300.html) description:
	- > Design Thinking is a methodology used to create effective and memorable products and experiences. It is a non-linear, iterative process in which solutions are generated by empathy and proven through measurable data. This problem-solving process can be applied to any discipline that seeks to enhance the lives of a group of people. In this course, students learn to understand users, define problems, and create solutions to prototype and test. Exploring human-centred design principles, such as listening, observation, empathy, and collaboration, students solve real-world problems from ideation to proven prototype.
- [[IDEO]] has a mini site [[IDEO Design Thinking]]
	- ((641782f4-c19d-43a0-a23c-bf96920ad525))
- Background Links
	- When we talk about innovation, and about design, we have to think about what is possible
	- What is possible is constrained in part by current "technology"
	- Even more so, it is constrained by the capabilities and types of people doing the implementation, inside the organization that is innovating
	- I have built companies, open source projects, digital apps, and communities for many years, and I want to share with you some concepts, frameworks, techniques, and ways of thinking that have formed a foundation in thinking about the world
	- [[Pioneers, Settlers, and Town Planners]] https://blog.gardeviance.org/2015/03/on-pioneers-settlers-town-planners-and.html
	- [[Wardley Maps]] https://learnwardleymapping.com/
	- [[Bret Victor]] [[The Humane Representation of Thought]] https://vimeo.com/115154289
	- Digital Gardens, Second Brains, and Tools for Thought
		- Obsidian https://obsidian.md/
		- LogSeq https://logseq.com
		- Notion https://www.notion.so/
- Presentation
	- Introduction
		- About Boris Mann
		  collapsed:: true
			- [[Boris Mann/About]]
			- I'm a technologist by training, with a Computer Science degree from the University of Victoria
			- I've worked for one big company, [[Nortel]], that was Canada's biggest tech company. I was there in Ottawa during the dot com boom and then bomb
			- I moved back to Vancouver in 2003 and have been helping to build Vancouver and Canada's startup community since then
			- My first company was [[Bryght]], the first commercial company focused on the #opensource [[Drupal]] #CMS
			- I've also been in a number of investor roles. I created the first startup accelerator in Canada, [[Bootup Labs]], in 2007, just in time to get flattened by the last economic downturn
			- I went on to run a small seed investing fund called [[Full Stack]], and ran an angel group called [[Open Angel Canada]]
			- Today, I'm the CEO and cofounder of [[Fission]], a startup working on
		- [[Wardley Maps]]
			- "Remember, all models are wrong but some are useful"
			- [[Simon Wardley]]
			- [[Pioneers, Settlers, and Town Planners]]
			- From Genesis / Bespoke to Commodity / Utility
			- A form of Organizational Design aka #orgdesign
		- [[Bret Victor]]
			- [[The Humane Representation of Thought]]
		- Lean Startup, [[Eric Ries]]
		- On Note Taking and Social Media
			- Prompt: Twitter, Instagram, TikTok, LinkedIn?
				- How many of you follow design leaders?
			- Prompt: note taking
				- Blogging or personal website?
				- Second brain / digital garden?
				- Daily Notes Page
					- ((641799fc-6358-4cd4-a989-6249703b1423))
					-