---
title: Feb 20th, 2021
date: 2021-02-20
category: Journal
---

## Back to IndieKit

I decided that remote publishing of notes would be useful. So, back to setting up [[IndieKit]]. It has changed quite a bit since I last looked at it -- for the better!

The actual server you deploy into [[Heroku]] is one index.js file. Here's mine [bmann/indiekit-bmcgarden](https://github.com/bmann/indiekit-bmcgarden), which in turn is really just a copy of [paulrobertlloyd/paulrobertlloyd-indiekit](https://github.com/paulrobertlloyd/paulrobertlloyd-indiekit).

I deleted everything except for Articles (which should turn into blog posts) and Notes (which will be notes, as long as notes don't have an arbitrary character limit coming in). I need to figure out templating to do things like turn Bookmarks into notes with the `link:` front matter filled out.

## OpenFaas

I have been meaning to tinker with [[OpenFaas]], specifically the non-Kubernetes [[faasd]]. This article -- [Bring a lightweight Serverless experience to DigitalOcean with Terraform and faasd](https://www.openfaas.com/blog/faasd-tls-terraform/) -- walks you through using [[Terraform]] and [[Digital Ocean]] to set things up. 

I've been looking for an open source [[serverless]] function runner to work with [[Fission]]. I think this could then also run things like [[IndieKit]] for me personally.

I ended up buying the book [Serverless for everyone else](https://gumroad.com/l/serverless-for-everyone-else), which is an ebook by the creator of OpenFaas, [[Alex Ellis]].

I got as far as Terraform automating the creation of a Digital Ocean droplet, which is pretty great, but have some errors that may be DNS related. As part of getting things setup, also installed [[doctl]], the command line tool for Digital Ocean.

## IndieKit Articles vs Notes

Well, everything is working, but need to figure a few things out. I used [[iA Writer]] to post to the site and it works! I've made Article post types into what I call Notes here, the main post type.

Posting from [[Quill]] as an Article isn't going to work, since it turns everything into HTML and escapes the square brackets in [[wikilinks]].

The Notes post type, I've created a new kind called [[Logs]]. They use the current date stamp as their filename, and I made a temporary [logs page](/logs/) to display them. So, I can post arbitarily long Notes posts. This could replace my manual Journal entries. Instead, I would auto-generate journal pages per day (not sure if this is possible), or maybe just show the last N days of logs on a main journal page. 